+++
Title = "Bookshelf"
+++

## An attempt to track my reading

Book | Author | Started | Finished | Notes 
-----|-------|-------|-------|--------
The Collected Essays, Journalism & Letters | George Orwell | - | 12/17/22 | Most of his letter to Parisian Review are uninteresting in the modern context, but the Lion & The Unicorn still feels relevant. It brings consideration of how we approach facism today as a political movement led by real people, not just an abstract historical concept. I'm taking a lot from Orwell's ability to accept his own privilege but still thoughtfully consider the headspace of the working class in England. It's a clinical approach to political analysis that rejects judgement even where possibly warranted. 
Lonesome Dove | Larry McMurtry | - | - | Couldn't finish it (Austin library not as generous with due dates)
The Goldfinch | Donna Tartt | - | 5/06/22 | Excellent - I see why it's so highly regarded. The hotel room scenes were haunting yet oddly familiar. I was captured by the writing about NYC and Las Vegas - puts into words feelings I've felt myself. One of the few books that really sucks you into an experience.
The Precipice | Toby Ord | - | 4/18/22 | Long winded. Humanity is at the precipice. The reason our actions are important is we should care about the totality of humanity's future actions - all the art, culture, life we could live if humanity survives. TLDR; we do a DCF of all the good things humanity could do in the future - this is the present value of why we should tackle problems that pose a chance of extinction. Ord considers the probability of extinction level events, and determines we have a 1/6 chance of extinction withing the century. This is terrifying, but also inscrutable. The scientist in me is struggling to grapple with the Bayesian / frequentist notion of a 1/6 extinction level probability. It's not like we get to iterate on this universe millions of times unless a multiverse, but then our experiences here are unconnected to other universes. Fine book, could have been a 3 part blog post. |
A Biography of The Pixel | Alvy Ray Smith | - | - | Exhaustive history of early computing and visual display. I really enjoy the historical background on Kotelnikov, Shannon, Fourier, etc. He makes it easy to skip the historical section when they get __too__ in the weeds and get back to the science. Alvy did a service to future scientists with this work.
Bewilderment | Richard Powers | - | 3/16/22 | Good, not great. Enjoyed the literary device of describing foreign worlds to reflect on Earth's peculiarity in the universe. The portrayal of the strained father was great, the child not as much. Flashbacks to his relationship with his dead wife was what kept me engaged. The meshing with science as a way to explore that relationship was very cool - almost took this into science fiction genre. The politics were overly preachy. | 
The Wisdom of Insecurity | Allan Watts | 12/20/21 | - | 
Goodbye to a River | John Graves | 12/10/21 | - |
God Save Texas | Lawrence Wright | 11/21/21 | 12/08/21 | Prose that captures the inherent contradictions in the state. Doesn't shy away from exploring the political landscape, the interwoven history and culture of the state, and its mixed future. Succinct theory of stages of cultural - I agree with the idea that so called _peak_ culture is self-referential. Makes me ashamed I haven't camped out in Big Bend, visited Marfa or Terlingua. So many adventures in the state worth having.
The Rust Programming Language | Steve Klabnick, Carol Nichols | 11/20/21 | - | Not finished yet. Explicit ownership is a great concept. Using semicolon to denote statements that don't return vs. expressions.
The Hard About Hard Things | Ben Horowitz | 11/07/21 | 11/14/21 | Many lessons. Importance of clear communication providing employee feedback. Importance of actively minimizing politics. Did a16z popularize the use of "partner" for venture capital funds? If your company is growing fast enough, existing jobs will be different - the same person may not be able to handle both. |
Never Split the Difference | Chris Voss | 10/27/21 | 11/06/21 | Mirroring. Do a position audit where you lay out the bad stuff first. Go for a "no" first since "no" empowers your counterparty. Force counterparty to say answer your questions. Use "How" and "Why" instead of "yes" and "no". Stay calm, don't go in with a time frame. Don't haggle, don't split the difference (at least for hostage negotiations). |
Zero to One | Peter Thiel | 08/25/21 | 10/12/21 | What important truth do you believe that very few people agree with you on? Competition is for losers; look to own small markets with excellent features and stickiness, then expand outward. Move last - “Let your plans be dark and impenetrable as night, and when you move, fall like a thunderbolt.”, Sun Tzu. Look for secrets to found companies. Founders are polarizing, don't be afraid to embrace it. We are building towards an accelerating future. |
Blood Meridian | Cormac McCarthy | 08/20 | - | |
Venture Deals | Brad Feld, Jason Mendelson | 08/11/21 | 9/17/21 | Must read for any startup founder. Biggest takeways are pre/post money valuations, hire good lawyers, and know who you are dealing with and their incentives at all times. | 
The Tsar of Love And Techno | Anthony Marra | 08/11/21 | 9/14/21 | Light read. Had never considered the scale of the war in Chechnya. Stalin was very bad. | 
Stalingrad | Vasily Grossman | 08/07/21 | - | | 
String Theory | David Foster Wallace | - | - | Tennis is not an "any given Sunday" type of sport. There are completely separate planes of competition that __never__ intersect. A top ranked ATP player will always beat a low level "qualies" player - even on a bad day. Also, the whole essay considering how silly it is that we ask professionals what was going through their heads at a pivotal moment. The answer is always nothing - that's why they are the best in the world. It's this specific ability honed by years of relentless practice to act without "thinking" at a high level in their domain. The best meditation on professionalism I've ever read.
Hail Mary | Andy Weir | 06/08/21 | 06/12/21 | Better than the Martian for obvious reasons once you've read this book. Not so much fiction, as a kinematics primer with a narrative wrapped around it. I'd like an edition of the book with the math all worked out in the margins.
Why Buddhism is True | Robert Wright | 05/15/21 | 06/04/21 | 
Who Gets What - And Why | Alvin E. Roth | 05/07/21 | 05/13/21 | Refreshing to get detailed but accesible case studies on concepts in market design (liquidity, thickness, trust, congestion, etc.) that make you feel like you get it. Obviously there's a lot of great mathematics behind the scenes, but the writing style made me intuit what was going on in the markets I see in my day-to-day life. For anyone who intends to build a platform or marketplace, this is a must-read. 
Why We Sleep | Matthew Walker | 04/17/21 | |
How To Change Your Mind | Michael Pollan  | 03/23/21 | 04/16/21 | If the United States reduces the schedule of psychadelics, the entire mental health industry could change. The actual chemical compound is publicly known and cheap to produce - the entire distribution of LSD, etc. would become part of the service industry (set/setting), instead of a medical process for SSRI's, anti-anxiety, etc. I won't be doing psychadelics anytime soon. My current pattern of consciousness is sufficiently malleable and enjoyable enough as it is. 
Stranger in a Strange Land | Robert Heinlein | 03/09/21 | 03/12/21 | The word "grok" is overused in our industry, but I see why this book appeals to my kind of people.
The Hobbit | J. R. R. Tolkien | 03/06/21 | 03/08/21 | Probably the 10th time I've read this book. Ideal Airbnb cabin reading.
Red Sorghum | Mo Yan | 7/14/20 | | That this won him the Nobel Prize is no longer surprising.
It Takes What it Takes | Trevor Moawad | 4/16/20 | |  
Master of the Senate | Robert Caro | 1/12/20 | | 
The Checklist Manifesto: How to Get Things Right | Atul Gawande | 11/25/19 | | 
Range: Why Generalists Triumph in A Specialized World | David Epstein |  | 09/15/19 | A must-read for anyone in the early stages of their career that feels anxiety seeing friends around them rocket to the top of a narrow sub-domain. The good news is that a bright future awaits generalists later in their careers. The generalists are able to make leaps out of their narrow sub-domains, drawing on ideas from fields that would look on the surface as having nothing to do with their current problem, but yet, as it turns out do share the same substructure. I love this book because it reminds you that, yes, you can be great at things you didn't start practicing when you were four. However, I think Epstein doesn't spend enough time exploring why generalists are disappearing in our late-stage capitalist world. This isn't a personal book. Epstein may credit that students are forced to specialize early, but he isn't really thinking about the emotional and psychological side of early-specialization.
Man's Search For Meaning | Victor Frankl | 6/10/19 | | Profound.
The Four: The Hidden DNA of Amazon, Apple, Facebook, and Google | Scott Galloway  | | 05/23/19 | Professor Scott Galloway's treatise on the four tech giants of our age is incendiary and prophetic. I blitzed through Galloway's book on a flight from Austin to New York and couldn't escape the thought that my life is textbook confirmation of his thesis. I read The Four on an iPad during a flight that I priced with Google. I had just purchased a bunch of basics in bulk for my new apartment from Amazon on a MacBook. Facebook should go without saying - I'm under 25, so I compulsively check Messenger and Instagram. The Four almost exclusively dominate my interactions with my friends, peers, and family. And while this should be cause for privacy concerns, I likely won't act until the risks, which are not readily apparent, outweigh the enormous benefits. We pay for free connection, free search, and the ability to cheaply acquire every product in existence with our data. It's easy react negatively to handing over so much data to large companies: "it's my data, how dare they monetize it ...." but that's quite literally the price of free services. Where I get angry is when legacy companies acquire my data, usually from shady third party data providers - hotels, credit agencies, etc. Legacy companies = terrible security. They don't have the vested interest or the technical ability to maintain a state-of-the-art security operation. At least Google has never suffered a major data breach. It speaks to my biases/preferences/experience, but when I rent a storage unit my main concern is that the unit is secure from theft. I rarely consider if the storage proprietor has checked to see what I have stored in the locker. And a key technical point to remember in the case of every digital storage provider is that any these companies don't just stored your data in plain sight. There isn't a file of "Matt_personal_data.txt" on a database somewhere. This information is all encrypted and then sharded a thousand ways to Sunday because the companies themselves have a vested interest to protect your data from adversaries.
The Power Broker: Robert Moses and the fall of New York | Robert Caro | 4/18/19 | | Amazing.
The Emperor of All Maladies | Siddhartha Mukherjee | 2/27/19 | | Amazing.
How To Solve It | George Polya | 2/20/19 | | 
Can't Hurt Me: Master Your Mind and Defy the Odds | David Goggins | 2/14/19 | | This book makes you want to run through a brick wall. Re-read if ever need that type of energy.
Quantum Computing since Democritus | Scott Aaronson | 2/6/19 | | 
The Gene | Siddhartha Mukherjee  | 1/21/19 |  | We are in control of so little of our lived experience.
The Culture Code | Daniel Coyle | 12/18/18 | | 
The Big Short: Inside the Doomsday Machine | Michael Lewis | 12/15/18 | | “Eisman was an upper-middle-class kid who had been faintly surprised when he wound up at Penn instead of Yale”
On Grand Strategy | John Lewis Gaddis | 12/9/18 | | "Big things are won by big dangers"
